---
title: Trigger Organization
author: jrepp
category: 03_Trigger_Editor

---
TRIGGER ORGANIZATION
====================

As your project grows and incorporates more and more elements, it's
probably going to trend toward some degree of disorder. This can be
pretty hazardous. In programming, the quality of work often depends on
how easily the developer is able to understand how the whole system
works together. A big mess of elements is directly opposed to this sort
of clear understanding, so developing a system for organizing your
project is a must. To support this, there are several tools in the
Trigger Editor to help you clean up. Organizing a project can have a
pretty drastic effect, as the image below shows.

![Image](./052_Trigger_Organization/image1.png)

Disorganized Triggers -- Triggers with Organization Measures

FOLDERS
-------

Folders are a fundamental element of organizing work on a computer, so
they likely need little explanation. They work pretty much as you'd
expect them to within the Editor. A Trigger Editor folder offers the
ability to group items into a container object that can be opened or
collapsed through its left-side + or - control.

Create a folder by right-clicking inside the Triggers Panel and
navigating to New -\> New Folder, or by using the New Folder button
found in the Trigger Bar. These procedures are shown below.

![Image](./052_Trigger_Organization/image2.png)

Creating Folders From Trigger Panel -- From Trigger Bar

Moving or creating a folder inside another folder will create a
subfolder. You can repeat this process to create a hierarchy for your
project. While you should avoid getting too carried away with this, a
couple of layers of hierarchy can be a strong first step for
organization. The following image shows the means by which the official
StarCraft campaign maps are organized, first broken into folders by
their general type (MAIN, GAMEPLAY, OBJECTIVES, and CINEMATIC), then by
their specific purposes, such as 'Global Variables,' 'AI,' or 'Victory
Cinematic.'

![Image](./052_Trigger_Organization/image3.png)

Folder Organization in a Campaign Map

COMMENTS
--------

Comments are a tool for project documentation. They add a text element
that is written directly into the Editor. These elements have no effect
on gameplay and stay inside the Editor, where they provide a useful
communication tool for describing how a section of a project works. You
can make comments for personal use or for other users who may see your
map, whether teammates or the community at large. Extended comment
sections can also be used for many utility purposes, including manuals,
release histories, lists of debugs codes, and to-do lists. Some typical
comments are shown below, denoted by their green text and
![Image](./052_Trigger_Organization/image9.png)

![Image](./052_Trigger_Organization/image5.png)

Commented Trigger

You can create comments from either the Triggers Panel or the Trigger
Content Panel. Do so by right-clicking in either location then
navigating to New -\> New Comment. Alternatively, you can also do so
using the New Comment button in the Trigger Bar, which will create a
comment at the cursor's current location.

![Image](./052_Trigger_Organization/image6.png)

Creating Comments From Trigger Content Panel -- From Trigger Bar

Adding comments within the Triggers Panel is considered less useful, as
it tends to be messy. Still, the option is available for small notes
that describe things like folder contents.

LIBRARIES
---------

Libraries allow you to organize elements of the Trigger Editor into
collections that you can share between projects using their import and
export functions. You can see which libraries are active in a project in
the Libraries Panel, which will typically include Built-In, Liberty,
Swarm, Void, and so forth. These are trigger libraries from the standard
dependencies, and they are the source of all pre-made actions,
conditions, functions, and events in the Editor. You can see a standard
view of a project's libraries below, denoted by their
![Image](./052_Trigger_Organization/image9.png)

![Image](./052_Trigger_Organization/image8.png)

Project Libraries

LABELS
------

Next to every Trigger Editor element is a small illustrative icon, known
as a Label. Each label categorizes its element via the icon, and may
also change the element's description to a color associated with the
label. Whenever you create an element from the standard library in the
Trigger Content Panel, it is assigned a pre-determined label. For
example, any action of the 'Camera' category will be set next to the
![Image](./052_Trigger_Organization/image9.png) standard labels and
their description colors in the image below.

![Image](./052_Trigger_Organization/image10.png)

Element Labels

These label presets are made available through the standard dependency
libraries and may be repurposed for use in any project. An element's
label is set by selecting it, right-clicking, and navigating to Label,
as shown below.

![Image](./052_Trigger_Organization/image11.png)

Setting an Element's Label

Setting a label for a definition will add both the icon and the chosen
label to any elements of that definition. If you choose a label for an
element that exists only in the Triggers Panel such as a trigger,
variable, or record, the label will only change the color of the
element. Labels are also useful when searching for elements using the
'Find' function of the Trigger Editor.

If you find yourself looking for more customization, you may want to add
custom labels. You can create a custom label by navigating to Data -\>
Modify Labels. This will launch the 'Trigger Labels' window shown below.

![Image](./052_Trigger_Organization/image12.png)

Creating a Custom Label

Here you can set the color and label. You can set any image sized 16 x
16 px as a label icon through the Archive Browser.

RECORDS
-------

Records present layouts of variables that are typically useful for
templating objects. This makes them a natural organizing tool as well.
The image below shows a standard use of records to organize variables.

![Image](./052_Trigger_Organization/image13.png)

Record as a Variable Organizer

GROUPS
------

The main Trigger Content Panel is actually composed of organizers called
Trigger Groups. Each group allows you to browse a separate element of
the Trigger Editor in a division of the main content panel. The Editor
supports up to three groups in a given project. Opening an additional
group will divide the panel space, as shown below.

![Image](./052_Trigger_Organization/image14.png)

Trigger Content Divided Into Two Groups

Viewing things in parallel, as in the above image, can be an effective
way of comparing different parts of your project. Overall, it offers
versatility in the ways that users can configure their Editor. You can
enable additional groups in the Trigger Editor view by going to View -\>
Show Groups. There you'll find four options for configuration.

-   Smart -- Trigger groups will be continually added or removed,
    depending on the current needs.
-   1 -- Allows a single trigger group. This is the default setting.
-   2 -- Allows two trigger groups.
-   3 -- Allows three trigger groups.

TABS
----

Tabs are sub-panels that exist within a certain trigger group. Tabs
allow you to view any number of elements and quickly navigate between
them using the tab headers at the top of the Trigger Content Panel.
Tabbed browsing of trigger elements is shown in the image below.

![Image](./052_Trigger_Organization/image15.png)

Tabbed Browsing within a Trigger Group

You can open tabs to the currently active group by selecting multiple
elements in the Triggers Panel, then hitting Enter. Once opened, you can
close tabs by right-clicking the tab header and navigating to either
Close Tab (CTRL+Shift+A) or Close All Tabs (CTRL+Alt+A). The combination
of tabs and groups offers a significant amount of customization in how
you organize the Trigger Editor. Below you can see an example of these
features in use.

![Image](./052_Trigger_Organization/image16.png)

Using Groups and Tabs Together in the Trigger Editor
