---
title: Trigger Debugger
author: jrepp
category: 03_Trigger_Editor

---
TRIGGER DEBUGGER
================

For advanced users, the Editor offers a Trigger Debugger. This allows
you to take a granular approach to performance analysis.

LAUNCHING THE DEBUGGER
----------------------

At runtime, you can launch the debugger to monitor map scripts as they
are called during a map test. It serves as a useful companion tool, able
to categorize all manner of inefficiencies and errors. There are three
main ways to access the debugger.

-   Activate the Editor setting 'Show Trigger Debugging Window' via File
    -\> Preferences -\> Test Document.
-   Use the cheat command 'trigdebug' in the chat box while testing a
    map.
-   In the Trigger Editor, use the native action 'Debug -- Open or Close
    the Debugging Window'.

The last technique is the most robust, as its inclusion in triggers
allows for dynamic use, stops, and reuse in a single session. Crucially,
this is the only method that supports testing in online multiplayer.

To make use of the debugger in any capacity, your game client must be
set to \'Windowed' mode. If you're using the first method on the list
above, you'll have to set the option Test Document -\> Game Display Mode
to 'Windowed' before the Editor will show the debug window. This setting
is highlighted in the image below.

![image0](./053_Trigger_Debugger/image1.png){width="3.65625in"
height="2.71875in"}­­

Activating the Debugger via Settings

CONFIGURING THE DEBUGGER
------------------------

When starting a new project, you'll want to alter the default debugger
settings to best prepare it for use. Launch the debugger and right-click
on the bottommost subview. You'll be presented with several
configuration options. Uncheck all of the options prefixed by Show,
except for Show Errors and Show User Output. Next, navigate to the
'Variables' tab, right-click inside the topmost view and uncheck Show
Constants. Under its default settings, the debugger can output a
tremendous amount of diagnostic data. Ironically, this can create a
noted decrease in performance. The options described here will minimize
the performance impact of the debugger.

COMPONENTS OF THE DEBUGGER
--------------------------

The 'Trigger Debugging' window presents nine separate tab-sorted views
of the project under examination. The information may be more or less
useful at different times, resulting in a breakdown of the general
application of each section as follows.

  -----------------------------------------------
  Debugging Sections      Profiling Sections
  ----------------------- -----------------------
  Variables               Variables

  Threads                 Threads

  Script Code             Trigger Profiling

  Triggers                Function Profiling

                          Triggers

                          Activity
  -----------------------------------------------

Functionally, each tab contains a table of data sorted into
column-separated fields. If you click on the table headings, the data
will be sorted by that field. You can click the heading again to
alternate between sorting in ascending or descending order. You should
also note the Status Bar at the bottom of the debugging window in each
tab. Here you'll find some high-level project properties; the 'Game
Time,' the elapsed time since your test began, the 'A.I. Time,' the
elapsed time that AI code has run in your test, and the 'Memory -- Code,
Globals,' a percentage value of the maximum, hard-coded memory available
for your Editor project.

VARIABLES TAB
-------------

![Image](./053_Trigger_Debugger/image2.png)

Variables Tab

The Variables Tab displays a list of every global variable currently in
use. Globals are notorious for their large memory allocation, so sorting
this list by 'Total Memory Size' can be very useful in finding which
portions of your project demand most memory. You'll also find custom
types within this tab, including records and arrays. Having a bird's eye
view of variable values at any point during the game is a useful first
measure for debugging. Below you'll find a description of each field
available in this tab.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Field      Details
  ---------- -----------------------------------------------------------------
  Variable   Galaxy script name for variable.

  Type       Galaxy type of the variable standard types include int, bool,
             string, struct, and array.

  Total      Element memory size in bytes. Complex data types display their
  Memory     entire memory allocation; array memory size is the number of
  Size       elements multiplied by the base element's size, while struct
             memory size is the sum of each base element's size.

  Value      The current value of the variable. Complex data types give the
             option 'Double Click to Expand.' Clicking will display a list of
             each variable contained within.
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

TRIGGERS TAB
------------

The Triggers Tab shows a list of every trigger that has occurred in the
game, alongside a breakdown of their use. This breakdown can give you
insight into the number of times triggers are being activated and how
often they have passed their conditions, while also providing metrics
for their running times. There is some unique and useful functionality
available from this view. By right-clicking an element, you can select
'Run Trigger' to execute a debug run of the trigger. This will not
succeed in cases where an outside event parameter is required within the
body of the trigger, but you can plan for this with a default value.

![Image](./053_Trigger_Debugger/image3.png)

Triggers Tab

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Field        Details
  ------------ --------------------------------------------------------------
  Trigger      Galaxy script name of the trigger function.

  Events       A count of how many times the trigger has fired.

  Failed       A count of how often the trigger condition fails, subsequently
  Conditions   not running the trigger's body statements.

  Run          A count of how many times the trigger has run its body
               statements. Usually equal to (Events -- Failed Conditions),
               but using the 'Run Trigger' option may distort this.

  Average Fail Average time (ms) taken for the trigger condition to fail.
  Time         

  Average Run  Average time (ms) taken for the trigger execution.
  Time         

  Total Time   Total time (ms) occupied by the trigger. This value can be
               roughly estimated by (Average Fail Time \* Failed Conditions)
               + (Average Run Time \* Run).
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

THREADS TAB
-----------

Under the Threads Tab you'll find a list of every active trigger thread.
This amounts to anything using a wait control statement, such as a
trigger or any action definitions within a multithreading paradigm.
Since these are often complex and performance intensive procedures, this
tab can be vital in properly building out these systems. From here,
right-clicking a row and selecting 'View Script' will bring you to the
Script Code Tab, automatically scrolling to the first line of the
selected function.

![Image](./053_Trigger_Debugger/image4.png)

Threads Tab

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Field     Details
  --------- -------------------------------------------------------------------
  Thread    For triggers, this will display the script name of the trigger
            function. When using action definition multithreading, this will
            receive the function name of the implicitly generated trigger
            function. These are readily noticeable by their prefix, auto, and a
            numeric suffix displaying the Thread ID.

  Time      Total time (ms) that the thread has been active.

  Waiting   Displays the type and amount (in seconds) of 'Wait' time the thread
  For       is currently executing. There are two types, Real and Game,
            representing real and game time respectively. This distinction can
            be important in discovering which 'Wait' statement within a trigger
            is currently in control.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

QUEUE TAB
---------

![Image](./053_Trigger_Debugger/image5.png)

Queue Tab

The Queue Tab lists every trigger currently making use of the action
queue. Actions making use of the queue include the special Galaxy script
functions TriggerQueueEnter() and TriggerQueueExit(). Triggers are only
displayed here if they are waiting for their queue actions to be
processed. Because this tab is so specific, it tends to be see light
use, which explains its lack of additional fields.

TRIGGER PROFILING TAB
---------------------

![Image](./053_Trigger_Debugger/image6.png)

Trigger Profiling Tab

In the Trigger Profiling Tab, you'll find a more targeted version of the
Triggers Tab, focused on profiling and performance monitoring. The list
here contains only triggers and action definitions being used for
multithreading. Rather than displaying runtimes, this the tab differs by
profiling with Self Only Time and Self Only + Children Time. These terms
offer a minute degree of specificity in profiling code and are defined
below.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Term            Definition
  --------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------
  Self-Only Time  The execution time of native Galaxy language features. This
                  measures the time required for running primitive operations, such
                  as modifying variables, running control structures, or copying
                  parameters. It does not include the call times of sub-functions,
                  even those of native Galaxy functions. However it does include the
                  overhead of function calls themselves.

  Self+Children   The total execution time for the trigger including all
  Time            sub-functions and calls. Note that the Children Time, refers to
                  the sub-function calls within each associated Self Time. This term
                  is provided by their addition to the previous, Self-Only Time.
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As in the Trigger Tab, you can right-click a row and select 'View
Script' to deliver the selected trigger to the Script Code Tab, where it
will scroll to the first code line of the function. You'll also find a
couple of useful options here. By right-clicking on the main window, you
can select Show Natives, which will allow the view to create a sub-entry
for every native function called from your base functions. You can also
select to Show SubCalls, which will display whole call stacks within the
profiler view.

Below is a description of each field in the Trigger Profiling Tab. You
should keep in mind that several of these fields are cited in terms of a
different system of time, as described earlier.

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Field          Details
  -------------- --------------------------------------------------------
  Script Call    The galaxy script name of the base function. If 'Show
  Identifier     Natives' is enabled, this will also display the name of
                 a specific native function.

  Run            A count of how many times the trigger has run its body
                 statements. Identical to the field found in the Triggers
                 Tab.

  Average        Average execution times (ms) for the trigger.
  Self-Only Time 

  &              

  Average        
  Self+Childre n 
  Time           

  Worst          The single longest execution time (ms) for the trigger.
  Self-Only Time Notable for finding likely causes of latency spikes.

  &              

  Worst          
  Self+Childre n 
  Time           

  Total          Total execution times (ms) for the trigger.
  Self-Only Time 

  &              

  Total          
  Self+Childre n 
  Time           
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

FUNCTION PROFILING TAB
----------------------

![Image](./053_Trigger_Debugger/image7.png)

Function Profiling Tab

The Function Profiling Tab is the functional counterpoint to the Trigger
Profiling Tab. It offers additional insight into the performance of
functions within the current testing session. The times in the section
'Run Times' are on a function scale and are equal to 'Self-Only' times
described in previous sections. This distinction can be somewhat
confusing, but is useful in weighing the overall performance of elements
against each other in demanding profiling work.

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Field    Details
  -------- --------------------------------------------------------------
  Functi   Galaxy script name of the function.
  on Name  

  Run      A count of how many times the function was called.

  Averag e The average execution time (ms), single longest execution time
  Run Time (ms), and total execution time (ms) of the function
           respectively. Note that figures are Run Times on a function
           scale and are equal to the form of Self-Only times.

  &        

  Worst    
  Run Time 

  &        

  Total    
  Time Run 
  Time     
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

ACTIVITY TAB
------------

![Image](./053_Trigger_Debugger/image8.png)

Activity Tab

In the Activity Tab, you'll find a data visualization representing game
activity during the current session. 'Activity' is a term describing a
combination of three properties, listed below.

  ----------------------------------------
  Described Property     Marking Color
  ---------------------- -----------------
  Fired Events           Green

  Checked Conditions     Yellow

  Executed Triggers      Red
  ----------------------------------------

The graph charts each property on a plot of executions vs time (ms),
with executions on the y-axis, and time on the x-axis. You should note
that, since executed triggers require checked conditions, the red line
will be a subset of the yellow line, always fitting within its area.
Overall, this tab itself is light on performance. You can actually see
latency spikes here by keeping an eye out for sudden, large movements of
the green line. You can also loosely gauge the total activity or engine
load at any given time to gain a more immediate sense of which parts of
your code might require further investigation.

SCRIPT CODE TAB
---------------

In essence, the Script Code Tab displays the script code of the loaded
project. However, its primary advantage is its ability to serve as a
full-fledged script debugger with the ability to set breakpoints,
inspect local variables, and step through code line by line. As such,
this section boasts the most useful core of debug functionality within
the Trigger Debugger. Here you can find errors where and when they
happen, rather than using outputs and intuition to try to track down
problems. Both methods have their advantages, but the most careful work
of fixing errors should occur here.

![Image](./053_Trigger_Debugger/image9.png)

Script Code Tab

SETTING BREAKPOINTS
-------------------

To debug a script at run time, you must first set a breakpoint. A
breakpoint acts as the entry point for the debugger to start analyzing
your code. Once the flow of code execution hits the breakpoint, the game
will be paused and the debugger will start to display data. You can add
a breakpoint to the script code by right-clicking the window and
selecting Add/Remove Breakpoint. You can remove a breakpoint by
selecting a code portion already marked with a breakpoint and repeating
the same procedure.

FURTHER DEBUGGING CONSIDERATIONS
--------------------------------

It is important to note how this technique scales with the size of
project's code. Once your project reaches a certain size, it will become
tedious to find the specific line of code being searched for. You can
combat this by switching to either the Triggers Tab or Trigger Profiling
Tab, sorting the entries by name, and finding the desired function to
debug. Then, right-click the row and use View Script. As mentioned
earlier, this will bring you back to the Script Code Tab, scrolled to
the first line of code of the selected function.

Alternatively, you can also set a breakpoint from within the Galaxy Map
Script, using the keyword Breakpoint at the desired location. When the
execution flow encounters this keyword, the Trigger Debugger will open
and jump to the position of the breakpoint. There is no current support
for the GUI, so you'll have to use either a macro or custom script
element.

You should also note that the Script Code Tab can only display the
contents of a single library at a time. This means that, when you're
working with a project using multiple libraries, you'll need to switch
the display between libraries as necessary. You can do this by using a
View Script command on a trigger from the library you want to switch to.

ANALYZING DATA
--------------

After a breakpoint has been set and encountered in the game's flow of
execution, the game will pause and bring the debugger into focus. At
this point, it will display additional information in the main view
Script Code Tab, as shown in the image below.

![image1](./053_Trigger_Debugger/image10.png){width="4.09375in"
height="3.39583in"}

Breakpoint Reached within Script Code Tab

You can use the dropdown menus at the top of each subview to alter the
displayed data so that you can parse the current system state. You'll
find a breakdown of the available options in the table below.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Option        Details
  ------------- -------------------------------------------------------------
  None          Hides the selected view pane.

  Globals       A list of all global variables, similar to the Variables Tab.

  Locals        Information about each local variable, including event
                parameters.

  Watch         Contains a constructed list of variables that have been
                marked with the useful Add Watch option.

  Callstack     The current callstack, or function call hierarchy, displayed
                from bottom to top.

  Breakpoints   A list of all currently set breakpoints.
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

In practical use, the Locals option far outweighs the others in terms of
usefulness. It allows you to unwrap each value within the currently
executing function for easy viewing. By studying these locals and
parameters you can track the control of a specific function and confirm
that its values are within the expected ranges.
