---
title: Doodad Actors
author: jrepp
category: 04_Data_Editor

---
DOODAD ACTORS
=============

Most users will understand doodads as a collection of elements in the
Terrain Editor that can be used in maps for decorative, styling, or
world-building purposes. Here, it will help if you have a more formal,
data-oriented definition for them. Doodads are simple, visual objects
that you can add directly into the game. You can do this using an actor
subtype known as the Doodad Actor. You can see some doodads in use in
the image below.

![Image](./064_Doodad_Actors/image1.png)

Doodads Shaping a Cliff face

Doodads are primarily visual elements. As game objects, they're
distinguished from Units by their removal from any computation regarding
moving, combat, abilities, and so forth. This type exists to offer a
lightweight method of sending Model types to the game with only some
minor properties. Creating an actor as a doodad subtype means that it
will be listed directly in the game, found in the Doodads Palette of the
Terrain Editor, ready for placement. You can see this in the image
below.

![Image](./064_Doodad_Actors/image2.png)

Doodad Actor Demonstrated in the Terrain Editor

DOODAD TYPES
------------

Doodad actors are also given a subtype, listed under their 'Doodad Type'
field. This is primarily an organizational tool and can be changed after
you have created the actor. Beyond organization, subtypes enable a set
of filters on the Doodads Palette. Searching with the 'Actor Type'
Doodad and a specific 'Doodad Type' can greatly speed your work with
doodads in the Terrain Editor.

![Image](./064_Doodad_Actors/image3.png)

Doodad Type Filter in the Terrain Editor -- Tagging Doodad Actors with a
Type in the Data Editor

The rightmost view above shows the organization of doodads in the actors
tab by their 'Doodad Type.' The leftmost view shows how these types can
then be used as a search filter in the Doodads Palette.

DOODAD ACTOR DETAILS
--------------------

There is a small number of fields that allow for the alteration of
doodad actors. Given the nature of doodads, these are mostly visual
modifiers and are described in the below table.

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Field        Details
  ------------ -------------------------------------------------------------------
  Art Model    Sets the model which will be made into a doodad.

  Art Scale    Allows for scaling of the model type in the X, Y, and Z axes.

  Random Scale Applies a random scale factor to placed doodads on an individual
  Range        basis. The scaling is applied across all three axes, and is
               selected from within a defined range.

  Fog          Sets the state the doodad enters when covered in fog of war. This
  Visibility   is an important consideration if you are concerned with
               performance. In order of increasing performance, the possible
               states are as follows. Visible will keep the doodad fully active
               under fog of war. Dimmed will slightly darken the doodad and
               maintain all other animations. Snapshot freezes animations but
               maintains visibility. Hidden completely removes the doodad when it
               is under fog of war.

  Footprint    Selects the doodad's pathing footprint. A doodad's pathing is its
               main logical component. This determines the interactions between
               the doodad's visual component, the Art Model, and the actions of
               other game objects on the map, such as unit movement or placement.

  Events       Sets the actor events for the doodad. This handles the basic
               creation and removal of doodads, but also things like sound
               emitters and animations.
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CREATING A DOODAD ACTOR
-----------------------

Assemble a new doodad by moving to the actors tab inside the Data
Editor. If the tab isn't already open, you can open it by navigating to
+ -\> Edit Actor Data -\> Actors. Once inside, create a new actor by
right-clicking in the main view and selecting 'Add Actor,' as shown
below.

![Image](./064_Doodad_Actors/image4.png)

Creating a New Actor

This will launch the 'Actor Properties' window. Inside this view, set a
name, then hit suggest to generate an ID. Set the 'Actor Type' to
Doodad. For this exercise the name Demo Doodad has been used.

![Image](./064_Doodad_Actors/image5.png)

Creating a Doodad Actor

Use the 'Doodad Type' dropdown to select the organization type for the
doodad. For the purposes of the demo, you should select the Prop type.
This is a subtype that is usually used to categorize man-made,
non-structural objects. You can see what it looks like to select the
subtype in the image below.

![Image](./064_Doodad_Actors/image6.png)

Selecting Doodad Type

Once you're done, you can click 'Ok' to finish creating the doodad
actor.

SETTING THE DOODAD ACTOR'S FIELDS
---------------------------------

The essential part of the doodad actor is the 'Model,' so you should set
that now. Highlight the new actor to view its fields in the Data Editor.
Move to the 'Model' field and double click it to launch an editing
window, as shown below.

![Image](./064_Doodad_Actors/image7.png)

Doodad Actor Model Selection

This window displays all of the Model assets in a project's data, along
with some searching options. Pick the desired model here, then hit 'Ok'
to save the selection. For this exercise, you should choose the Colonist
Supply Crate.

Next, move to the 'Events' field to set the actor events. Select this
field and double click it to open the actor events subeditor shown
below.

![Image](./064_Doodad_Actors/image8.png)

Doodad Actor Events Default

Doodad actors contain support for sound emitters and animation by
default. The 'AnimPlay' message sets the animation to be played on
doodad creation, selects a random animation frame to start playing at,
and then sets it to loop indefinitely. The sound emitter begins its
playing behavior as set out within its respective sound type. If these
extended functions are not needed, as is the case with the demo crates,
then you can delete them. Do this by selecting each term,
right-clicking, and choosing 'Remove Selection.'

Finally, you'll have to set the 'Footprint' field. This field allows you
to select from a list of available or custom footprints and apply them
to the doodad. The pathing will then be set on top of the doodad in the
game, giving it the logic rules defined in the Footprints type. Add a
footprint by highlighting the 'Footprint' field and double clicking to
launch the editor window shown below.

![Image](./064_Doodad_Actors/image9.png)

Setting Doodad Footprint

For this exercise, you should choose a footprint of Footprint 2x2. The
doodad is now ready and functional, but there are still several
properties you should consider setting. These include Art Scale, Random
Scale Range, and Fog Visibility. The completed demo doodad's fields are
shown below.

![Image](./064_Doodad_Actors/image10.png)

Demo Doodad Fields

PLACING THE DOODAD
------------------

To place your custom doodad, navigate to the Terrain Editor and then to
the Doodads Layer. The completed doodad will have been added to the
Doodads Palette and you can find it either manually or using the search
filters, like 'Doodad Type.' You can use the palette for this, as shown
below.

![Image](./064_Doodad_Actors/image11.png)

Doodads Palette Search Filters Use

Placing the doodad in the Editor view should reveal its model and
footprint on the map. Note that any scaling, and randomization of scale
will occur as the model is placed and won't be reflected in the
palette's previewer. You can see the exercise's custom doodad in the
image below.

![Image](./064_Doodad_Actors/image12.png)

Custom Doodad in Game
