---
title: Buttons
author: jrepp
category: 04_Data_Editor

---
BUTTONS
=======

The term 'button' is used broadly in StarCraft to refer to any
interactive interface element, be it a menu button, a dialog, or
anything clickable. Conversely, in the context of the Data Editor the
term refers very specifically to an art datatype. These Buttons are the
visuals for abilities in the command card, the section of a player's UI
with which they can interact directly. A typical view of a command card
filled with buttons is shown below.

![Image](./075_Buttons/image1.png)

Templar Command Card with Buttons

Here there are eight Buttons on the templar's command card including
'Psi Storm,' 'Feedback,' and the basic control elements, such as 'Move,'
'Attack,' and 'Stop.' Each button has been tied into the unit through
its command card field. This sets the button's look as well as some
supplementary properties for use inside the interface.

BUTTON DATA FIELDS
------------------

Compared with the varied, multi-purpose buttons of the engine at large,
the Button datatype is quite scant. The properties contained in this
type are broken down in the table below.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Field       Details
  ----------- ----------------------------------------------------------------
  Icon        Sets the texture with which the button will be made. This
              typically uses a member of the specially styled set of 76x76
              textures included with the Editor, identified by their prefix
              btn-.

  Hotkey      Sets a keyboard key that, when pressed, will automatically
              trigger the button in the UI. In StarCraft hotkeys are almost
              universally used to speed player input.

  Tooltip     Sets the text displayed during button mouseover.

  Name        Sets the name displayed during button mouseover.

  Tint By     Colorizes the button overlay based on race selection. The races
  Race        are colorized as follows: Zerg -- Orange, Terran -- Green, and
              Protoss -- Blue.

  Universal   Adds the button and its hotkey to every unit. Typically used for
              only the elementary unit actions, 'Move,' 'Attack,' 'Stop,'
              'Cancel,' and so forth.

  Alert Icon  The alert panel can make use of the Button type to push warning
              or teaching information out to the player. This sets the icon
              sent by this button's ability.

  Alert       Similar to the Alert Icon, but sets a tooltip to be delivered
  Tooltip     for alerts.

  Alert Name  Similar to the Alert Icon, but sets a name to be delivered for
              alerts.

  Race        Sets a race attribute of the button, for organizational
              purposes.
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Leaving the mouse idle over a button will display a dialog containing
its Tooltip and Name, along with times relevant to the connected
ability. This dialog is shown below.

![Image](./075_Buttons/image2.png)

Button Mouseover Tooltip and Name

CREATING A BUTTON
-----------------

Open the Data Editor and move to the buttons tab. If it isn't already
open, you can navigate there via + -\> Edit Art and Sound Data -\>
Buttons, as shown.

![Image](./075_Buttons/image3.png)

Navigating to Buttons in Data

Create a new button by right-clicking in the main window view and
selecting 'Add Button.'

![Image](./075_Buttons/image4.png)

Creating a New Button

This will launch the 'Button Properties' window. There you can set the
'Name' of the new button, then hit 'Suggest' to generate an ID. Note
that typically a button is named for the ability it will represent,
rather than being named as a button itself. So choose a name like
'Attack' or 'Plague' rather than 'Attack Button' or 'Plague Button.' A
typical creation screen is shown below, filled out with the name 'Demo.'

![Image](./075_Buttons/image5.png)

Completed Button Creation Screen

SETTING THE BUTTON ICON
-----------------------

The primary button field you'll need to set is the icon field. This will
determine the texture to be transformed into a Button. Highlight the
'icon' field and double click it to launch an 'Object Values' window.
Clicking 'Browse' here will launch the Archive Browser. Inside the
browser, you can select any texture for use as a button, but the
standard is 76x76 and with the filetype .dds. You can find a large
collection of these textures by searching with the prefix btn-, as shown
below.

![Image](./075_Buttons/image6.png)

Icon Selection with the Archive Browser

In this demo, the texture btn-tips-hotkeys.dds has been selected. Note
that these textures lack the colored border typical of in-game buttons.
This is because the border is overlaid by the engine and colorized using
the Tint By Race field. You can see the many types of borders within the
textures by searching under the prefix btn-border.

SETTING THE BUTTON TOOLTIP
--------------------------

To provide helpful information to the player, a button is usually fitted
with a tooltip to be displayed by the game on button mouseover. To
create that text, navigate to the 'Tooltip' field and double click to
open an 'Object Values' editing window.

![Image](./075_Buttons/image7.png)

For this demo, sample text has been inputted containing the message,
'This is a button built for a tutorial demo.' At this point, it is
common to also set this for the Alert Tooltip field using the same
procedure.

SETTING THE BUTTON HOTKEY
-------------------------

For many players, buttons are seldom clicked in what might be considered
the 'standard' fashion. They are usually interacted with via their
hotkeys. A hotkey sets up an automatic 'pressing' of the target button
in response to the direct press of a player's keyboard key. This is an
arrangement built for speed, but some prefer it for simple convenience.

While these hotkeys can be decided by players through the game's
'Hotkeys' section, base hotkeys are set through data. To do so, move to
the 'Hotkeys' field in the Data Editor and double click it. This will
launch an 'Object Values' window, presenting you with the following
view.

![Image](./075_Buttons/image8.png)

No Hotkey Assigned

From here you can set the hotkey by clicking inside the 'Hotkey' box,
where the value is currently Unknown. This will turn the current hotkey
value red and allow for keyboard input. Pressing a key at this time will
set it as the hotkey. For this demonstration, the D key was hit, giving
the following result.

![Image](./075_Buttons/image9.png)

Hotkey Assigned

Clicking 'Ok' at this point will save the hotkey and return to the main
Editor view.

ADDING A BUTTON TO A UNIT
-------------------------

Buttons are specifically designed to slot into a unit's command card. In
this exercise, you'll slot the demo button into a pre-existing unit. To
do this, move to the units tab via + -\> Edit Game Data -\> Units. Any
unit would be useable here, but for this instance select the 'Marine.'
Then select its 'Command Card' field as shown below.

![Image](./075_Buttons/image10.png)

Command Card Field

Double clicking the field will open a subeditor view for configuring a
unit's command card. You can add a new button by navigating to an
unoccupied slot in the command card and clicking the green +. This will
launch a window called 'Choose Button.' Inside that window, select the
'Demo' button for addition to the command card. This procedure is shown
below.

![Image](./075_Buttons/image11.png)

Adding a Button to the Command Card

Click 'Ok' to add the button to the command card. You will now need to
link an ability to the button in order for it to be functional and
display in game. Select the new button in the command card subeditor and
set its 'Command Type' to 'Ability Command,' set its 'Ability' to
'Move,' and then set its 'Ability Command' to 'Move.' This will give you
the following view.

![Image](./075_Buttons/image12.png)

Completed Linked Button

From here, you can complete the button by hitting 'Ok.' For this demo,
the 'Move' ability is being used as a stand-in for what would normally
be at least a non-traditional skill on the unit, if not a completely
custom ability. For the purposes of this demonstration, the ability
itself isn't all that relevant. Your button should now be visible in
game on the command card. You can confirm this by launching the map with
'Test Document' and checking it.

Doing so should give you a result like the one pictured below.

![Image](./075_Buttons/image13.png)

Custom Button In-Game
