---
title: Terrain Editor Introduction
author: jrepp
category: 02_Terrain_Editor

---
TERRAIN EDITOR INTRODUCTION
===========================

The Terrain Editor provides the tools for controlling the look of the
world in your projects. The terrain editor lets you work in seven
layers, so you can build your map to suit your needs, whether
competitive or creative.

![Image](./018_Terrain_Editor_Introduction/image1.png)

Masvard's Terrain Piece 'One Wicked Dream'

LAYERS
------

![Image](./018_Terrain_Editor_Introduction/image2.png)

This is the lowest layer for world-building. Here you can raise or lower
the basic landscape to form hills and valleys. The ground is painted
with a dynamic painting system, applying a variable palette of grass,
dirt, metal, rock, and more. You can add foliage, water, cliffs, and
ramps on top of this.

![Image](./018_Terrain_Editor_Introduction/image3.png)

This level allows you to place any units, buildings, or destructible
terrain.

![Image](./018_Terrain_Editor_Introduction/image4.png)

This layer allows you to place any of the thousands of decorative
elements supplied with the Editor. These doodads can be carefully tooled
and altered to the minutest detail, giving you the ability to add
flavour to your landscape.

![Image](./018_Terrain_Editor_Introduction/image5.png)

This layer is where you lay down points, which are used to mark
locations in the data and trigger portions of the game. This is how
you'll plan where designed effects will be placed.

![Image](./018_Terrain_Editor_Introduction/image6.png)

Much like points, regions allow you to mark out entire areas with
specific gameplay conditions. By building these in the Editor view,
you'll be able to get a visual impression of how your project's logic
and actual gameplay will fit together.

![Image](./018_Terrain_Editor_Introduction/image7.png)

You can arrange and set up cameras in this layer. The Editor has robust
options allowing you to set camera objects anywhere in 3d space, test
them, and then use them for cutscenes or games. There is also a variety
of visual effects available while working with cameras, which you can
export to carry on to new projects.

![Image](./018_Terrain_Editor_Introduction/image8.png)

The Pathing Layer is where you set the rules for specific unit types,
whether ground-based or fliers, and determine which areas of the map are
passable. Correct control over pathing means that you decide where your
players can travel.
