---
title: Lighting Window
author: jrepp
category: 02_Terrain_Editor

---
LIGHTING WINDOW
===============

The Lighting Window is an interface for altering and previewing lights
within the Editor. You can use it to create entirely new lighting
arrangements, as well as using any of the existing lighting assets in
the game. You can see what it looks like in the image below.

![Image](./028_Lighting_Window/image1.png)

Lighting Window and its Use

You can access the Lighting Window by navigating to Window -\> Lighting
from anywhere in the Editor. Every lighting setting in the game is found
here, grouped into categories like UI Lighting, Tileset Lighting,
Portrait Lighting, and Cinematics Lighting. From here you can browse and
alter these sets, or even import and export lights between projects. To
do so, navigate to either File -\> Export Light or File -\> Import
Light. Outside the Editor, these are stored as .SC2Lighting files.

Modifying lights can be daunting due to the number of parameters in the
Lighting Window. These parameters are broken down into ten categories:
Global, Tone Mapping, Colorization, Variations, SSAO, Terrain, Regions,
Key, Fill, and Back. These are discussed in more detail below.

The easiest way to understand these properties is to use the Lighting
Window to preview lighting in the main Editor view, which will
dynamically update with every change. You can do this by opening the
window, then moving to the Terrain Editor. Configure the lighting to
show the game lighting by navigating to Render -\> Show Lighting -\>
Game Lighting. Any selections and changes to the lighting selection
should immediately render in the Editor view, giving you ample
opportunity to test and experiment.

The following sections explore each of the features in the lighting tab,
along with a description of their properties and a preview of some of
their effects. Each preview features the base lighting arrangement on
the leftmost side, set to 'Agria (Jungle)' lighting. This will be shown
alongside various lighting alterations described in the caption for each
image. These alterations are not cumulative, each one is made to the
base lighting.

GLOBAL
------

![Image](./028_Lighting_Window/image2.png)

Global Lighting

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Property     Details
  ------------ --------------------------------------------------------------
  Ambient      Defines the color of the global lighting on every surface.
  Color        

  Specular     Sets the magnitude of light emitted from reflective surfaces.
  Multiplier   

  Emissive     Sets the magnitude of light emitted from emissive textures.
  Multiplier   

  Light Time   Sets the light's time of day value. These are used within
  of Day       'Time of Day' lighting to simulate, through a series of
               lights, the changes occurring during a planet's movements.

  Current Test Sets the current time of day in the Editor preview. Setting
  Time         this to the Light Time of Day will test the current light.
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

![Image](./028_Lighting_Window/image3.png)

Base -- Red Ambient -- Green Ambient -- Blue Ambient -- High Specular --
High Emissive -- Low Emissive

TONE MAPPING
------------

![Image](./028_Lighting_Window/image4.png)

Tone Mapping

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Property     Details
  ------------ --------------------------------------------------------------
  Exposure     Sets the amount of light applied to the scene.

  Bloom        Sets the minimum light value to apply bloom to. Bloom is a
  Threshold    type of fringe lighting that has a distinct bleeding effect
               emitted from shiny objects. Low bloom is common of night time.

  Ambient      Sets the magnitude of the ambient light. This is currently not
  Multiplier   active in the Editor

  Diffusive    Sets the amount of white light generated by objects.
  Multiplier   

  White Point  Sets the amount of light applied to the scene when the Method
               is set to Reinhard.

  Method       Alters how tone mapping is applied. Each method is a different
               algorithm, which affects brightness and contrast.
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

![Image](./028_Lighting_Window/image5.png)

Base -- High Exposure -- Low Bloom Threshold -- High Diffusive
Multiplier -- Extreme Diffusive Multiplier -- High White Point with
Reinhard Mapping -- Linear Tone Mapping

COLORIZATION
------------

![Image](./028_Lighting_Window/image6.png)

Colorization

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Property     Details
  ------------ ---------------------------------------------------------------
  Input Low    Controls the contrast in the darks of the scene. Must remain
               lower than Input High.

  Input High   Controls the contrast in the highlights of the scene. Must
               remain higher than Input Low.

  Input Gamma  Controls the contrast in the scene's midtones.

  Output Low   Alters the darks of the scene, while preserving color. Must
               remain lower than Input High.

  Output High  Alters highlight brightness, while preserving color. Must
               remain higher than Input Low.

  Brightness   Sets the magnitude of light being reflected in a scene.

  Contrast     Sets the emphasis of the difference between darks and
               highlights.

  Hue          Hue shifts the color value of all objects in the scene. This is
               much more distinguishable with Colorize turned off.

  Saturation   Sets the intensity of color within the scene.

  Lightness    Alters the overall amount of light within a scene.

  Colorize     Alters the intensity and contrast of color in the scene.
               Turning this off modifies how hue, saturation, and lightness
               contribute to the lighting.

  Correct      When active, corrects the color of the scene based on monitor's
  Gamma        gamma settings.
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

![Image](./028_Lighting_Window/image7.png)

Base -- Input Low Increased -- Input High Decreased -- High Input Gamma
-- Output Low Increased -- Output High Increased-- High Contrast

![Image](./028_Lighting_Window/image8.png)

Base -- High Contrast --Hue Decreased with Colorize Off -- Hue Increased
with Colorize Off -- Low Saturation -- Lightness Increased -- Correct
Gamma Off

VARIATIONS
----------

Variations are simple filters that can be used to affect the overall
lighting of scene. Selecting any of the variation controls will add the
associated property to the light.

![Image](./028_Lighting_Window/image9.png)

Lighting Variations

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Property          Details
  ----------------- -----------------------------------------------------
  Region            Sets whether the variation applies to the scene's
                    darks, midtones, or highlights.

  Sensitivity       Controls the strength of the applied filter. These
                    are additive; Red 5 is equal to five applications of
                    Red 1.

  Color Settings    Applies the selected color. Options include Red,
                    Cyan, Magenta, Green, Blue, and Yellow.

  Light Settings    Applies more lightness or darks to the scene. These
                    elements neutralize each other.

  Less Saturation & Applies more or less saturation to the scene,
  More Saturation   changing the emphasis on color. These elements
                    neutralize each other.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

![Image](./028_Lighting_Window/image10.png)

Base -- Cyan Midtones -- Violet Darks -- Green Highlights -- Darker Blue
Darks -- Yellow Lighter Midtones -- More Saturation

SSAO
----

![Image](./028_Lighting_Window/image11.png)

Ambient Occlusion

Screen Space Ambient Occlusion (SSAO) is a rendering technique that
shades objects based on their distance from the camera. These settings
are currently inactive.

TERRAIN
-------

![Image](./028_Lighting_Window/image12.png)

Terrain Lighting

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Property               Details
  ---------------------- ------------------------------------------------
  Terrain Specular       Sets the base amount of light reflected from the
  Exponent               terrain's highlights.

  Terrain Diffuse        Sets the magnitude of the terrain's general
  Multiplier             light reflectivity.

  Terrain Specular       Sets the magnitude of the terrain's highlight
  Multiplier             reflectivity.

  Creep Specular         Sets the base amount of light reflected from
  Exponent               creep.

  Creep HDR Diffuse      Sets the magnitude of creep's general light
  Multiplier             reflectivity.

  Creep HDR Specular     Sets the magnitude of creep's highlight
  Multiplier             reflectivity.

  Creep HDR Emissive     Sets how much light is created from creep's
  Multiplier             emissive texture.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

![Image](./028_Lighting_Window/image13.png)

Base -- Increased Terrain Specular Exponent -- Increased Terrain Diffuse
Exponent -- Increased Terrain Specular Multiplier -- Decreased Creep
Specular Exponent -- Increased Creep HDR Diffuse Multiplier -- Increased
Creep HDR Specular Multiplier

REGIONS
-------

![Image](./028_Lighting_Window/image14.png)

Region Lighting

Regions define lighting settings that are applied distinctly to one area
of the map. Up to four areas can be painted with the lighting brush
within the Terrain Layer of the Terrain Module. Each region is highly
configurable with support for individual Key, Back, Fill, and ambient
settings. Once set, the lighting within a region overrides the global
lighting. You can apply lighting regions to terrain in the Terrain Layer
of the Terrain Module.

![Image](./028_Lighting_Window/image15.png)

Base -- Painted Regions

KEY, FILL, AND BACK LIGHTING
----------------------------

These three associated categories make up a three-point lighting model,
a traditional method of lighting scenes in various media. The Key is the
principal light, it illuminates the main components of the scene and is
the primary emphasizer of looks, colors, and shadows. The Fill is a
secondary light that traditionally shines from an angle to the side of
the Key. This contributes body, lessening the impact of individual
shadows and creating softer lighting.

Back lights, as the name suggests, shine either from behind or from
another side of the scene. Usually Back lighting is set to give a sort
of halo effect to objects in the scene, separating them from their
surroundings with lighting around their rim. You'll find these lighting
types in three similar tabs in the Lighting Window. One of these is
shown below.

![Image](./028_Lighting_Window/image16.png)

Key Lighting

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Property     Details
  ------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------
  Diffuse      Sets the color of the light's entire surface reflection.
  Color        

  Diffuse      Sets the strength of the light's entire surface reflection.
  Multiplier   

  Specular     Sets the color of the light's direct reflection.
  Color        

  Specular     Sets the strength of the light's direct reflection.
  Multiplier   

  Direction    Sets the heading of the light using the H and V controls. H, or
               Horizontal angle, corresponds to cardinal direction as follows:
               North is 0, East is 90, South is 180, and West is 270. V, or
               Vertical angle, corresponds to the light's altitude. Directly
               above the target is 90, directly below is 270. Note that a light
               positioned below the horizon will not light the terrain's texture.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CUSTOMIZING A LIGHT
-------------------

Open the demo map provided with this article. There you should see the
scene used in the creation of some of this article's images. It's a film
noir styled bar front. Unfortunately, the clean daytime lighting is
spoiling the mood. You can use the lighting interface to solve this
problem. To explore light customization, navigate to the Lighting Window
via Window -\> Lighting Window. Now select the premade light set 'Custom
Night Light' and click on the '00:00:00' to open the light.

![Image](./028_Lighting_Window/image17.png)

Starting Light

From here you'll make a series of adjustments to the lighting, they will
be listed with their effects shown in the photo strip below. Unlike the
images used in our previous examples, these effects are cumulative.
Compare the results of each step using this sample image to get a feel
for the effects of different lighting properties. By the end of this
exercise, this scene should have much more film noir appeal.

1.  In Global, set the Ambient Color to R86, G79, B147. Set the Specular
    Multiplier to 0.6, and the Emissive Multiplier to 1.1.
2.  In Tone Mapping, lower the Exposure from 1.5 to 0.6.
3.  Lower the Bloom Threshold from 1.0 to 0.1. Increase the Diffuse
    Multiplier from 1.0 to 1.4.
4.  In Colorization, increase the Input Low from 0 to 0.05. Decrease the
    Input High from 1 to 0.9.
5.  Increase the Colorization from 0.3 to 0.5.
6.  In Terrain, decrease the Terrain Diffuse Multiplier from 1.0 to 0.
    Decrease the Terrain Specular Multiplier from 3.75 to 0.

![image0](./028_Lighting_Window/image18.png)

Base -- Step 1 -- Step 2 -- Step 3 -- Step 4 -- Step 5 -- Step 6
